docs/docs/core-components/fallback_vertex.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Fallback Vertex
parent: CORE Components
nav_order: 3
date: 2023-08-06
---

# Fallback Vertex
{: .d-inline-block }

New (v0.2.0)
{: .label .label-green }

{: .note }
Fallback Vertex for node types that currently not present in the framework. The fallback icon will be rendered for such element. 
Also you will see console WARNING: No such nodeType: non_existing_super_cloud_service in the Library (using default fallback icon Info). Please contact maintainer to add it, or provide MergeRequest``

---

## Node Type: ``fallback_vertex``

## Code Snippet:

```python
{% root_include_snippet ../tests/core/test_fallback_vertex.py %}
```

## Rendering:

![lambda](output/jpg/fallback_vertex.jpg)

## drawio fallback_vertex vertex:

```xml
<mxCell id="vertex:non_existing_super_cloud_service:arn:aws:non_existing_super_cloud_service:eu-west-1:123456789012:mock_data" parent="1" vertex="1">
    <mxGeometry width="78" height="78" as="geometry"/>
</mxCell>
```
---

## Advanced for Geeks:

### Style:
```html
style="sketch=0;aspect=fixed;html=1;align=left;image;fontSize=12;image=img/lib/mscae/Info.svg;labelBackgroundColor=none;"
```

| attribute | value |
|:----------|:------|
|align| left |
|aspect| fixed |
|fontSize| 12 |
|html| 1 |
|image|  |
|image| img/lib/mscae/Info.svg |
|labelBackgroundColor| none |
|sketch| 0 |

### Vertex size:

| attribute | value |
|:---------|:-----------|
| width    | 78  |
| height   |78|

### Full XML dump:
```xml
<mxfile host="multicloud-diagrams" agent="PIP package multicloud-diagrams. Generate resources in draw.io compatible format for Cloud infrastructure. Copyrights @ Roman Tsypuk 2023. MIT license." type="MultiCloud">
    <diagram id="diagram_1" name="AWS components">
        <mxGraphModel dx="1015" dy="661" grid="1" gridSize="10" guides="1" tooltips="1" connect="1" arrows="1" fold="1" page="1" pageScale="1" pageWidth="850" pageHeight="1100" math="0" shadow="1">
            <root>
                <mxCell id="0"/>
                <mxCell id="1" parent="0"/>
                <mxCell id="vertex:non_existing_super_cloud_service:arn:aws:non_existing_super_cloud_service:eu-west-1:123456789012:mock_data" value="&lt;b&gt;Name&lt;/b&gt;: non_existing_super_cloud_service&lt;BR&gt;&lt;b&gt;ID&lt;/b&gt;: arn:aws:non_existing_super_cloud_service:eu-west-1:123456789012:mock_data&lt;BR&gt;-----------&lt;BR&gt;&lt;b&gt;Owner&lt;/b&gt;: 123456789012&lt;BR&gt;&lt;b&gt;CDC Offset&lt;/b&gt;: 3&lt;BR&gt;&lt;b&gt;Throttling&lt;/b&gt;: 100" style="sketch=0;aspect=fixed;html=1;align=left;image;fontSize=12;image=img/lib/mscae/Info.svg;labelBackgroundColor=none;" parent="1" vertex="1">
                    <mxGeometry width="78" height="78" as="geometry"/>
                </mxCell>
            </root>
        </mxGraphModel>
    </diagram>
</mxfile>
```

### drawio file:

Download generated ``fallback_vertex.drawio``:

[Download](output/drawio/fallback_vertex.drawio){: .btn .btn-purple }

Commit message:

docs: added layers, vertex, edge, cosmetics

docs/docs/core-components/fallback_vertex.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Fallback Vertex
parent: CORE Components
nav_order: 3
date: 2023-08-06
---

# Fallback Vertex
{: .d-inline-block }

New (v0.2.0)
{: .label .label-green }

{: .note }
Framework library is periodically updated with new ``Vertex`` types added. 
If you are using not currently supported vertex type, the fallback icon will be rendered for such element. 
Also, you will see console message: 
```shell
WARNING: No such nodeType: non_existing_super_cloud_service in the Library (using default fallback icon Info). Please contact maintainer to add it, or provide MergeRequest``
```
---

## Node Type: ``fallback_vertex``

## Code Snippet:

```python
{% root_include_snippet ../tests/core/test_fallback_vertex.py %}
```

## Rendering:

![lambda](output/jpg/fallback_vertex.jpg)

## drawio fallback_vertex vertex:

```xml
<mxCell id="vertex:non_existing_super_cloud_service:arn:aws:non_existing_super_cloud_service:eu-west-1:123456789012:mock_data" parent="1" vertex="1">
    <mxGeometry width="78" height="78" as="geometry"/>
</mxCell>
```
---

## Advanced for Geeks:

### Style:
```html
style="sketch=0;aspect=fixed;html=1;align=left;image;fontSize=12;image=img/lib/mscae/Info.svg;labelBackgroundColor=none;"
```

| attribute | value |
|:----------|:------|
|align| left |
|aspect| fixed |
|fontSize| 12 |
|html| 1 |
|image|  |
|image| img/lib/mscae/Info.svg |
|labelBackgroundColor| none |
|sketch| 0 |

### Vertex size:

| attribute | value |
|:---------|:-----------|
| width    | 78  |
| height   |78|

### Full XML dump:
```xml
<mxfile host="multicloud-diagrams" agent="PIP package multicloud-diagrams. Generate resources in draw.io compatible format for Cloud infrastructure. Copyrights @ Roman Tsypuk 2023. MIT license." type="MultiCloud">
    <diagram id="diagram_1" name="AWS components">
        <mxGraphModel dx="1015" dy="661" grid="1" gridSize="10" guides="1" tooltips="1" connect="1" arrows="1" fold="1" page="1" pageScale="1" pageWidth="850" pageHeight="1100" math="0" shadow="1">
            <root>
                <mxCell id="0"/>
                <mxCell id="1" parent="0"/>
                <mxCell id="vertex:non_existing_super_cloud_service:arn:aws:non_existing_super_cloud_service:eu-west-1:123456789012:mock_data" value="&lt;b&gt;Name&lt;/b&gt;: non_existing_super_cloud_service&lt;BR&gt;&lt;b&gt;ID&lt;/b&gt;: arn:aws:non_existing_super_cloud_service:eu-west-1:123456789012:mock_data&lt;BR&gt;-----------&lt;BR&gt;&lt;b&gt;Owner&lt;/b&gt;: 123456789012&lt;BR&gt;&lt;b&gt;CDC Offset&lt;/b&gt;: 3&lt;BR&gt;&lt;b&gt;Throttling&lt;/b&gt;: 100" style="sketch=0;aspect=fixed;html=1;align=left;image;fontSize=12;image=img/lib/mscae/Info.svg;labelBackgroundColor=none;" parent="1" vertex="1">
                    <mxGeometry width="78" height="78" as="geometry"/>
                </mxCell>
            </root>
        </mxGraphModel>
    </diagram>
</mxfile>
```

### drawio file:

Download generated ``fallback_vertex.drawio``:

[Download](output/drawio/fallback_vertex.drawio){: .btn .btn-purple }
