README.md, before:

# MultiCloud Diagrams

[![license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](/LICENSE)
[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/multicloud-diagrams.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/multicloud-diagrams)
![python version](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-%3E%3D%203.7-blue?logo=python)
![Run tests](https://github.com/tsypuk/multicloud-diagrams/workflows/Run%20tests/badge.svg?branch=main)

Generate and render Diagrams-As-a-Code (DAG) in popular ``drawio`` format for multiple Cloud providers.

<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/tsypuk" target="_blank"><img src="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/assets/img/custom_images/orange_img.png" alt="Buy Me A Coffee" style="height: 41px !important;width: 174px !important;box-shadow: 0px 3px 2px 0px rgba(190, 190, 190, 0.5) !important;" ></a>


- you can use it by defining ``Diagrams as a Code``, compile to drawio vector format, edit vector drawio representation (align components location).
- other option is to query infrastructure elements with popular libraries, like aws boto, preprocess desired elements and compile them into drawio using ``multicloud-diagrams``.

- **Source code:** https://github.com/tsypuk/multicloud-diagrams
- **PyPI multicloud-diagrams:** https://pypi.org/project/multicloud-diagrams/
- **Sponsor project:** https://patreon.com/tsypuk
- **View changelog:** https://github.com/tsypuk/multicloud-diagrams/blob/main/CHANGELOG.MD
- **Bug reports:** https://github.com/tsypuk/multicloud-diagrams/issues
- **Samples and examples:** https://github.com/tsypuk/multicloud-diagrams/tree/main/samples/samples

## Supported Cloud Provides

![aws provider](https://img.shields.io/badge/AWS-orange?logo=amazon-aws&color=ff9900)
![on premise provider](https://img.shields.io/badge/OnPremise-orange?color=5f87bf)

[//]: # (![azure provider]&#40;https://img.shields.io/badge/Azure-orange?logo=microsoft-azure&color=0089d6&#41;)
[//]: # (![gcp provider]&#40;https://img.shields.io/badge/GCP-orange?logo=google-cloud&color=4285f4&#41;)


### Features:
- allows to generate drawio diagram with predefined styles for popular aws services, support graph-based connection with named edges
- supports single and batch elements append to diagram
- duplicates detection to prevent ball of mud in file format and diagram
- verification that both vertices present on diagram when adding edge connection between them 
- if the node is not present, fallback to default icon when rendering
- read previous version of drawio file and reuses existing vertices coordinates when generating a new version
- generate diagram from ``YAML`` definition
- mix and augment Diagram-as-code, real infra crawler, static yaml-based content to diagram

### Supported AWS services:
TODO (create Landscape png)

- lambda_function
- sqs
- sns
- iam_role/iam_policy/iam_permission
- dynamo/dynamo_stream
- api_gw
- s3
- kms
- ssm

### Library usage samples:

#### 1. Generating AWS DynamoDB Details drawio diagram based on library, http, awscli, etc. Example based on boto3 DynamoDB response

```json
{
        'AttributeDefinitions': [
            {
                'AttributeName': 'first',
                'AttributeType': 'S'
            },
            {
                'AttributeName': 'second',
                'AttributeType': 'N'
            },
            {
                'AttributeName': 'third',
                'AttributeType': 'B'
            },
        ],
        'TableName': 'prod-dynamo-table',
        'KeySchema': [
            {
                'AttributeName': 'string',
                'KeyType': 'HASH'
            },
        ],
        'TableSizeBytes': 123,
        'ItemCount': 123,
        'TableArn': 'arn:aws:dynamodb:eu-west-1:123456789:table/prod-dynamo-table',
        'LocalSecondaryIndexes': [{
...       
...
...
          
          'SSEDescription': {
            'Status': 'ENABLED',
            'SSEType': 'KMS',
            'KMSMasterKeyArn': 'string',
          },
          'DeletionProtectionEnabled': True
        }
```

- Source [aws_dynamo_boto3_response.py](https://github.com/tsypuk/multicloud-diagrams/blob/main/samples/samples/aws_dynamo_boto3_response.py)
- Output compiled [output.prod.dynamo.drawio](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tsypuk/multicloud-diagrams/main/samples/output/output.prod.dynamo.drawio):

![output.prod.dynamo.png](https://github.com/tsypuk/multicloud-diagrams/raw/main/samples/output/png/output.prod.dynamo.png?raw=True)

#### 2. Diagrams as a Code. DAG. Generating AWS IAM Graph from the code based on DAG declaration:

```python
    producer_func_arn = 'arn:aws:lambda:eu-west-1:123456789:function:producer-lambda'
    metadata = {
        "CodeSize": 1234,
        "Handler": "main",
        "Layers": 0,
        "Memory": 128,
        "PackageType": "Zip",
        "Runtime": "go1.x",
        "Timeout": 30,
        "TracingConfig": "{'Mode': 'Active'}",
        "Version": "$LATEST"
    }
    mcd.add_vertex(id=producer_func_arn, node_name='producer-lambda', arn=producer_func_arn, node_type='lambda_function', metadata=metadata)
    
    consumer_func_arn = 'arn:aws:lambda:eu-west-1:123456789:function:consumer-lambda'
    mcd.add_vertex(id=consumer_func_arn, node_name='consumer-lambda', arn=consumer_func_arn, node_type='lambda_function')
    
    dynamo_arn = 'arn:aws:dynamodb:eu-west-1:123456789:table/table1'
    mcd.add_vertex(id=dynamo_arn, node_name='table1', arn=dynamo_arn, node_type='dynamo')
    
    sns_arn = 'arn:aws:sns:eu-west-1:123456789:internal.fifo'
    metadata = {
        "Owner": 123456789,
        "SubscriptionsConfirmed": 3,
        "SubscriptionsPending": 0
    }
    mcd.add_vertex(id=sns_arn, node_name='internal', arn=sns_arn, node_type='sns', metadata=metadata)
    
    sqs_arn = 'arn:aws:sqs:eu-west-1:123456789:int-eu-live-events.fifo'
    metadata = {
        "DelaySeconds": 0,
        "FifoQueue": "TRUE",
        "ReceiveMessageWaitTimeSeconds": 0,
        "SqsManagedSseEnabled": "false",
        "VisibilityTimeout": 30
    }
    mcd.add_vertex(id=sqs_arn, node_name='events', arn=sqs_arn, node_type='sqs', metadata=metadata)
    
    sqs_arn2 = 'arn:aws:sqs:eu-west-1:123456789:int-eu-live-events2.fifo'
    mcd.add_vertex(id=sqs_arn2, node_name='events2', arn=sqs_arn2, node_type='sqs')
    
    s3_arn = 'arn:aws:s3:::bucket_name/key_name'
    mcd.add_vertex(id=s3_arn, node_name='key_name', arn=s3_arn, node_type='s3')
    
    mcd.add_link(src_node_id=f'lambda_function:{producer_func_arn}', dst_node_id=f'sns:{sns_arn}')
    mcd.add_link(src_node_id=f'lambda_function:{producer_func_arn}', dst_node_id=f's3:{s3_arn}')
    mcd.add_link(src_node_id=f'sns:{sns_arn}', dst_node_id=f'sqs:{sqs_arn}')
    mcd.add_link(src_node_id=f'sns:{sns_arn}', dst_node_id=f'sqs:{sqs_arn2}')
    mcd.add_link(src_node_id=f'sqs:{sqs_arn}', dst_node_id=f'lambda_function:{consumer_func_arn}')
    mcd.add_link(src_node_id=f'lambda_function:{consumer_func_arn}', dst_node_id=f'dynamo:{dynamo_arn}')
```

- Source [aws_service_end_2_end](https://github.com/tsypuk/multicloud-diagrams/blob/main/samples/samples/aws_service_end_2_end.py)
- Output compiled [output.prod.end2end.drawio](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tsypuk/multicloud-diagrams/main/samples/output/output.prod.end2end.drawio)

![output.prod.iam-roles.png](https://github.com/tsypuk/multicloud-diagrams/blob/main/samples/output/png/output.prod.end2end.png?raw=True)


#### 3. Generating Diagram from YAML source

```yaml
vertices:
  - name: prod-lambda-name
    type: lambda_function
    arn: arn:aws:lambda:eu-west-1:123456789:function:prod-lambda-name
  - name: role-lambda-name
    type: iam_role
    arn: arn:aws:iam::123456789:role/prod-lambda-name
  - name: prod-cloudwatch-policy
    icon: broker
    type: iam_policy
    arn: arn:aws:iam::123456789:policy/prod-cloudwatch-policy
  - name: prod-s3-policy
    type: iam_policy
    arn: arn:aws:iam::123456789:policy/prod-s3-policy
  - name: prod-dynamodb-policy
    type: iam_policy
    arn: arn:aws:iam::123456789:policy/prod-dynamo-policy
edges:
#  1st approach src/dst are linked to yaml vertices by name
  - { src: prod-lambda-name, dst: role-lambda-name, label: HasRole, link_type: none }
  - { src: role-lambda-name, dst: prod-cloudwatch-policy, label: Allow CloudWatch logs, link_type: none }
#  2nd approach src/dst are linked by ARN (ARN can be present in same yaml, or loaded programmatically)
  - {
    src_arn: arn:aws:iam::123456789:role/prod-lambda-name,
    src_type: iam_role,
    dst_arn: arn:aws:iam::123456789:policy/prod-s3-policy,
    dst_type: iam_policy,
    label: Allow S3 access,
    link_type: none }
# 3rd approach is mixed of 1st and 2nd
  - {
    src_arn: arn:aws:iam::123456789:role/prod-lambda-name,
    src_type: iam_role,
    dst: prod-dynamodb-policy,
    label: Allow DynamoDB read access,
    link_type: none }
```
- Source [aws_iam_from_yaml.py](https://github.com/tsypuk/multicloud-diagrams/blob/main/samples/samples/aws_iam_from_yaml.py)
- Output compiled [output.prod.iam-roles-from-yaml.drawio](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tsypuk/multicloud-diagrams/main/samples/output/output.prod.iam-roles-from-yaml.drawio)

- ![output.prod.iam-roles.png](https://github.com/tsypuk/multicloud-diagrams/blob/main/samples/output/png/output.prod.iam-roles-from-yaml.png?raw=True)

### Publishing 

```shell
poetry build
export PYPI_USERNAME=
export PYPI_PASSWORD=
poetry publish --build --username $PYPI_USERNAME --password $PYPI_PASSWORD

cd samples/samples
poetry install
poetry run python aws_iam_roles_from_code_with_enum.py
```

```shell
poetry run flakehell plugins
NAME        | VERSION  | CODES            | RULES
mccabe      | 0.6.1    | C90              | +*
pycodestyle | 2.7.0    | E, W             | +*, -E501
pyflakes    | 2.3.1    | F                | +*
pylint      | 0.0.0    | C, E, F, I, R, W | +*

poetry run flakehell lint

```

```shell
poetry run git-changelog -c angular -s docs,feat,test --output CHANGELOG.MD
git push --tags
```

### Contribution Guide:

OpenSource Guide, [How to contribute to opensource](https://opensource.guide/)

Commit message:

feat: added landscape realtime generation with supported nodes

README.md, after:

# MultiCloud Diagrams

[![license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](/LICENSE)
[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/multicloud-diagrams.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/multicloud-diagrams)
![python version](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-%3E%3D%203.7-blue?logo=python)
![Run tests](https://github.com/tsypuk/multicloud-diagrams/workflows/Run%20tests/badge.svg?branch=main)

Generate and render Diagrams-As-a-Code (DAG) in popular ``drawio`` vector format  for multiple Cloud providers. This is graph not static, so you can  move, edit, position nodes like you want.

<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/tsypuk" target="_blank"><img src="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/assets/img/custom_images/orange_img.png" alt="Buy Me A Coffee" style="height: 41px !important;width: 174px !important;box-shadow: 0px 3px 2px 0px rgba(190, 190, 190, 0.5) !important;" ></a>

- **Source code:** https://github.com/tsypuk/multicloud-diagrams
- **PyPI multicloud-diagrams:** https://pypi.org/project/multicloud-diagrams/
- **Sponsor project:** https://patreon.com/tsypuk
- **CHANGELOG:** https://github.com/tsypuk/multicloud-diagrams/blob/main/CHANGELOG.MD
- **Bug reports:** https://github.com/tsypuk/multicloud-diagrams/issues
- **Samples and examples:** https://github.com/tsypuk/multicloud-diagrams/tree/main/samples/samples

### Supported Nodes Landscape:

![landscape.png](https://github.com/tsypuk/multicloud-diagrams/blob/main/landscape.png)

### Cloud Provides:

#### Supported:

![aws provider](https://img.shields.io/badge/AWS-orange?logo=amazon-aws&color=ff9900)
![on premise provider](https://img.shields.io/badge/OnPremise-orange?color=5f87bf)

#### Planned to be added:
![azure provider](https://img.shields.io/badge/Azure-orange?logo=microsoft-azure&color=0089d6)
![gcp provider](https://img.shields.io/badge/GCP-orange?logo=google-cloud&color=4285f4)

### Features:
- allows to generate drawio diagram with predefined styles for popular aws services, support graph-based connection with named edges
- supports single and batch elements append to diagram
- duplicates detection to prevent ball of mud in file format and diagram
- verification that both vertices present on diagram when adding edge connection between them
- if the node is not present, fallback to default icon when rendering
- read previous version of drawio file and reuses existing vertices coordinates when generating a new version
- generate diagram from ``YAML`` definition
- mix and augment Diagram-as-code, real infra crawler, static yaml-based content to diagram

### Library usage samples:

#### 1. Generating AWS DynamoDB Details drawio diagram based on library, http, awscli, etc. Example based on boto3 DynamoDB response

```json
{
        'AttributeDefinitions': [
            {
                'AttributeName': 'first',
                'AttributeType': 'S'
            },
            {
                'AttributeName': 'second',
                'AttributeType': 'N'
            },
            {
                'AttributeName': 'third',
                'AttributeType': 'B'
            },
        ],
        'TableName': 'prod-dynamo-table',
        'KeySchema': [
            {
                'AttributeName': 'string',
                'KeyType': 'HASH'
            },
        ],
        'TableSizeBytes': 123,
        'ItemCount': 123,
        'TableArn': 'arn:aws:dynamodb:eu-west-1:123456789:table/prod-dynamo-table',
        'LocalSecondaryIndexes': [{
...       
...
...
          
          'SSEDescription': {
            'Status': 'ENABLED',
            'SSEType': 'KMS',
            'KMSMasterKeyArn': 'string',
          },
          'DeletionProtectionEnabled': True
        }
```

- Source [aws_dynamo_boto3_response.py](https://github.com/tsypuk/multicloud-diagrams/blob/main/samples/samples/aws_dynamo_boto3_response.py)
- Output compiled [output.prod.dynamo.drawio](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tsypuk/multicloud-diagrams/main/samples/output/output.prod.dynamo.drawio):

![output.prod.dynamo.png](https://github.com/tsypuk/multicloud-diagrams/raw/main/samples/output/png/output.prod.dynamo.png?raw=True)

#### 2. Diagrams as a Code. DAG. Generating AWS IAM Graph from the code based on DAG declaration:

```python
    producer_func_arn = 'arn:aws:lambda:eu-west-1:123456789:function:producer-lambda'
    metadata = {
        "CodeSize": 1234,
        "Handler": "main",
        "Layers": 0,
        "Memory": 128,
        "PackageType": "Zip",
        "Runtime": "go1.x",
        "Timeout": 30,
        "TracingConfig": "{'Mode': 'Active'}",
        "Version": "$LATEST"
    }
    mcd.add_vertex(id=producer_func_arn, node_name='producer-lambda', arn=producer_func_arn, node_type='lambda_function', metadata=metadata)
    
    consumer_func_arn = 'arn:aws:lambda:eu-west-1:123456789:function:consumer-lambda'
    mcd.add_vertex(id=consumer_func_arn, node_name='consumer-lambda', arn=consumer_func_arn, node_type='lambda_function')
    
    dynamo_arn = 'arn:aws:dynamodb:eu-west-1:123456789:table/table1'
    mcd.add_vertex(id=dynamo_arn, node_name='table1', arn=dynamo_arn, node_type='dynamo')
    
    sns_arn = 'arn:aws:sns:eu-west-1:123456789:internal.fifo'
    metadata = {
        "Owner": 123456789,
        "SubscriptionsConfirmed": 3,
        "SubscriptionsPending": 0
    }
    mcd.add_vertex(id=sns_arn, node_name='internal', arn=sns_arn, node_type='sns', metadata=metadata)
    
    sqs_arn = 'arn:aws:sqs:eu-west-1:123456789:int-eu-live-events.fifo'
    metadata = {
        "DelaySeconds": 0,
        "FifoQueue": "TRUE",
        "ReceiveMessageWaitTimeSeconds": 0,
        "SqsManagedSseEnabled": "false",
        "VisibilityTimeout": 30
    }
    mcd.add_vertex(id=sqs_arn, node_name='events', arn=sqs_arn, node_type='sqs', metadata=metadata)
    
    sqs_arn2 = 'arn:aws:sqs:eu-west-1:123456789:int-eu-live-events2.fifo'
    mcd.add_vertex(id=sqs_arn2, node_name='events2', arn=sqs_arn2, node_type='sqs')
    
    s3_arn = 'arn:aws:s3:::bucket_name/key_name'
    mcd.add_vertex(id=s3_arn, node_name='key_name', arn=s3_arn, node_type='s3')
    
    mcd.add_link(src_node_id=f'lambda_function:{producer_func_arn}', dst_node_id=f'sns:{sns_arn}')
    mcd.add_link(src_node_id=f'lambda_function:{producer_func_arn}', dst_node_id=f's3:{s3_arn}')
    mcd.add_link(src_node_id=f'sns:{sns_arn}', dst_node_id=f'sqs:{sqs_arn}')
    mcd.add_link(src_node_id=f'sns:{sns_arn}', dst_node_id=f'sqs:{sqs_arn2}')
    mcd.add_link(src_node_id=f'sqs:{sqs_arn}', dst_node_id=f'lambda_function:{consumer_func_arn}')
    mcd.add_link(src_node_id=f'lambda_function:{consumer_func_arn}', dst_node_id=f'dynamo:{dynamo_arn}')
```

- Source [aws_service_end_2_end](https://github.com/tsypuk/multicloud-diagrams/blob/main/samples/samples/aws_service_end_2_end.py)
- Output compiled [output.prod.end2end.drawio](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tsypuk/multicloud-diagrams/main/samples/output/output.prod.end2end.drawio)

![output.prod.iam-roles.png](https://github.com/tsypuk/multicloud-diagrams/blob/main/samples/output/png/output.prod.end2end.png?raw=True)


#### 3. Generating Diagram from YAML source

```yaml
vertices:
  - name: prod-lambda-name
    type: lambda_function
    arn: arn:aws:lambda:eu-west-1:123456789:function:prod-lambda-name
  - name: role-lambda-name
    type: iam_role
    arn: arn:aws:iam::123456789:role/prod-lambda-name
  - name: prod-cloudwatch-policy
    icon: broker
    type: iam_policy
    arn: arn:aws:iam::123456789:policy/prod-cloudwatch-policy
  - name: prod-s3-policy
    type: iam_policy
    arn: arn:aws:iam::123456789:policy/prod-s3-policy
  - name: prod-dynamodb-policy
    type: iam_policy
    arn: arn:aws:iam::123456789:policy/prod-dynamo-policy
edges:
#  1st approach src/dst are linked to yaml vertices by name
  - { src: prod-lambda-name, dst: role-lambda-name, label: HasRole, link_type: none }
  - { src: role-lambda-name, dst: prod-cloudwatch-policy, label: Allow CloudWatch logs, link_type: none }
#  2nd approach src/dst are linked by ARN (ARN can be present in same yaml, or loaded programmatically)
  - {
    src_arn: arn:aws:iam::123456789:role/prod-lambda-name,
    src_type: iam_role,
    dst_arn: arn:aws:iam::123456789:policy/prod-s3-policy,
    dst_type: iam_policy,
    label: Allow S3 access,
    link_type: none }
# 3rd approach is mixed of 1st and 2nd
  - {
    src_arn: arn:aws:iam::123456789:role/prod-lambda-name,
    src_type: iam_role,
    dst: prod-dynamodb-policy,
    label: Allow DynamoDB read access,
    link_type: none }
```
- Source [aws_iam_from_yaml.py](https://github.com/tsypuk/multicloud-diagrams/blob/main/samples/samples/aws_iam_from_yaml.py)
- Output compiled [output.prod.iam-roles-from-yaml.drawio](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tsypuk/multicloud-diagrams/main/samples/output/output.prod.iam-roles-from-yaml.drawio)

- ![output.prod.iam-roles.png](https://github.com/tsypuk/multicloud-diagrams/blob/main/samples/output/png/output.prod.iam-roles-from-yaml.png?raw=True)

### Publishing 

```shell
poetry build
export PYPI_USERNAME=
export PYPI_PASSWORD=
poetry publish --build --username $PYPI_USERNAME --password $PYPI_PASSWORD

cd samples/samples
poetry install
poetry run python aws_iam_roles_from_code_with_enum.py
```

```shell
poetry run flakehell plugins
NAME        | VERSION  | CODES            | RULES
mccabe      | 0.6.1    | C90              | +*
pycodestyle | 2.7.0    | E, W             | +*, -E501
pyflakes    | 2.3.1    | F                | +*
pylint      | 0.0.0    | C, E, F, I, R, W | +*

poetry run flakehell lint

```

```shell
poetry run git-changelog -c angular -s docs,feat,test --output CHANGELOG.MD
git push --tags
```

### Contribution Guide:

OpenSource Guide, [How to contribute to opensource](https://opensource.guide/)
